We are, did somebody just yell woo?
Was that you?
Thanks.
Really means a lot.
Appreciate that.
Alright, so we are continuing
our Genesis series.
Um, we are going through the first
11 books of, books, chapters,
not books, chapters of Genesis.
This is week three for us.
We took one week to
cover all of chapter one.
We took one week to cover
three verses, actually four.
Plus a lot of other verses that talked
about rest and then we are taking
this week to finish up chapter two.
So we're kind of going through
a little bit quicker, uh, than
maybe you would expect when it
comes to the book of Genesis.
And so we're talking about this
idea of we're going through with the
mindset of seeing the key themes,
talking through the basics of it.
We'll dive deep based upon a
couple of themes that are in there.
Um, and then there's going
to be some things that if it
may cause questions, right?
Questions about, like, let's talk a
little bit deeper about this or that.
I always encourage you to get into
a, maybe an inspire group or, or
maybe just in an individual study
by yourself to study a little bit
deeper on some of these things.
Um, because, uh, it's, there's, there,
honestly, we could take verse by verse
and dive so deep and spend every...
week on another verse and just keep going.
But, um, for your sanity and mine, we
aren't going to do that every single week.
We're just going to kind of do as best
we can to walk through this and gain
something, something each week that we can
hopefully leave, uh, transformed, right?
Something that we can apply to our life.
Something that we can learn from
the Bible and see about God.
And so this week is going to be
good because we're going to see
how God relates to his creation.
And it's kind of kind of be
a little bit deeper look.
Um, and so again, uh, just to kind
of highlight a couple of the, the,
the things that we did learn over
the last couple of weeks in week one
in Genesis one, we learned, uh, who
created us, God, obviously He created
us, He created the whole world.
Uh, and then we learned what we are
created for to be image bearers of God
to the world and to those around us.
And really that's going to go with
this through the rest of this book.
And honestly, that's going to go through.
With the rest of our lives that we are
image bearers of God to the world And
we are here to represent God to other
people and to reflect his character And
so we learned that and then last week
we learned about rest who likes rest.
I love rest I mean like yesterday I think
I fell asleep at like 4 30 because a
little later after all the soccer games
and I didn't wake up to like almost 7 P.
m.
Got up, ate dinner, studied
over my message, got the kids
to bed, and went back to sleep.
Still woke up tired.
Okay, I need some more rest.
So I love rest.
We talked about rest last week.
And really this idea behind, uh,
rest is an opportunity, God divinely.
Created rest on the seventh day, uh,
for us to worship, reflect, repent, and
celebrate all that God has done for us.
There's a lot more to that message.
If you're interested in either
one of those messages that if you
may have missed them over the last
couple weeks, you can go online.
Uh, we record these messages and we post
them online to inspireandhopechurch.
com slash Watch, I think, is what it is.
And you can find both those messages
to learn a little bit more about it.
Um, but just to kind of give you some
idea here, we're looking at this book
from the, uh, the view of the writer.
Most of us would say, most scholars
would say, that this book was written
by Moses for the purpose of the people
that he was leading out of Egypt, right?
The Exodus.
Um, and he was writing for a purpose
to remind them who created them.
What they were created for, uh,
he was doing this to remind them
of of the first creations, right?
The first of a lot of things Uh, and
and this was really valuable for them to
have to be able to To read and to know
about and for moses to be able to know
about As well as he was leading those
people, but it's also valuable for us
in our lives and how we reflect God, how
we relate with God, and how we honestly
just relate with a lot of our beliefs.
Um, and so today we're going
to talk about three things.
We're going to talk about the first
man, uh, and the home in which God
created for him in the Garden of Eden.
We're going to talk about the
first covenant between God and
man, and then we're going to
talk about the first marriage and
how God originally designed it.
Um, and so you guys ready to jump in?
Alright, so here's what we're
going to do because we always
are covering a lot of verses.
I'm not going to read them all up front.
We're just going to read sections and then
cover that section and then move forward.
So the first one we're going to
cover is the first 15 verses.
So that's what I'm
going to read right now.
So we're Genesis chapter 2.
We're going to be starting in verse
4, it should be up on the screen here
and we're going to go through 15.
So it says this, These are the
records of the heavens and the
earth concerning their creation.
And at the time that the Lord God made
the earth and the heavens, no shrub of
the field had grown on the land, and
no plant of the field had yet sprouted.
For the Lord God had not made
it rain on the land, and there
was no man to work the ground.
But the mitts would come up from the
earth, and the water all of the ground.
And then the Lord God formed a the man
out of the dust of the ground and breathe
the breath of life and into His nostrils.
And the man became a living being.
And the Lord God planted a garden
in Eden in the east and there
He placed the man He had formed.
The Lord God had caused to grow out.
Uh of the ground every tree pleasing in
appearance and good for food Including the
tree of life in the middle of the garden
As well as the tree of the knowledge
of good and evil and the river went out
from eden to the water garden Water the
garden and from there divided and became
a source of four rivers the name of the
first is Pishon, which flows through the
entire land of Havel where there is gold.
Gold that the land is pure.
Uh, Delium and Onyx are also there.
And the name of the second
river is Gilhon, which flows
through the entire land of Cush.
The name of the third river is
Tigris, which runs east of Assyria.
And the fourth river is their Euphrates.
And the Lord God took the man and
placed him in the Garden of Eden
to work it and to watch over it.
So I'm just going to pray for us before
we jump into this first section here.
So Lord Jesus, open our hearts and our
minds to your word because Lord, we
want to know you more and we want to
be transformed by your word and allow
it to work in and through our lives
to reflect that to those around us.
And so Lord, we just pray
this in your heavenly name.
Amen.
So the first thing that we see is
God creating the first man, uh, and
the first home in the Garden of Eden.
And you may be a little bit confused, I
remember when I gave my life in Christ,
I did what every believer typically does,
they grab their Bible and they go to the
first book of the Bible and they read from
the front cover to the end of the cover.
But if you're anything like me,
you read usually the first couple
of books of the Bible and get
bored somewhere around Leviticus.
And then you feel convicted and
do it again three months later
and do it again six months later.
And all of a sudden you realize you never
make it past Leviticus because you're
always seem to get hooked up on just like
the boringness of some of that stuff.
Okay.
Um, so whenever I used to read
Genesis, I was always a little
bit confused because didn't God
already create Man in his image.
Uh, well, when we look at this,
we kind of see what God did in the
first chapter, when he began to
describe, uh, the first seven days.
It was really that 30, 000 foot view.
And now what we're seeing is a little
bit closer view of the in depth
creation of man and the garden, uh,
and really even more so of creation.
And so that's kind of what
we're looking at today.
Right?
And so we're going to just
kind of walk verse by verse.
So in verse five, he talks about
that there was no shrubs or plants
that had grown up at this point.
And he really answers the
question why that hasn't happened.
And he says that there
was no rain on the land.
Um, and then he says there
was no man to work it.
And interestingly enough, most
believe, when we begin to think
about this, go back to creation.
He says he creates this, I think it's on
day two or three, he creates this expanse
of water between below and above the sky.
Most believe, and again, you
know, we're sitting here surmising
these things that we look into.
Most believe that water that was
separated above the land, which
would have been quote unquote rain,
never came down until the flood.
So, actually, the earth never experienced
rain until the flood came, and it rained.
And so, interestingly enough,
that's not how God watered the land.
He actually watered the land by
doing a couple of other things.
Um, so again, He had, uh, not created
man to work it, and He had not had rain.
So what did He do?
How did he respond?
He responded with just creating
mist that came up from the ground.
We see that in verse 6.
He talks about this.
He says, um, uh, But mist would
come up from the earth of the
water and water all the ground.
And then the Lord God also formed
man out of the dust of the ground
and breathed breath into him,
and he became a living being.
Um, it's that moment where I stop,
and these are the moments where I
would just challenge you when you
read the Word of God that we read
it in such a way as though we're not
reading it to get through it, but we're
reading it to begin to visualize it.
And in this moment, as I was reading
this this week, and I was visualizing
God creating this man, the first man, and
interestingly enough, again, study, study
the Bible, I was doing this in my studies,
he never calls him Adam until later on.
Like, several chapters later, he calls him
the man, the man, which honestly, I think
we like being called the man, right guys?
Like, we like to be the man,
and that's what God called him.
But he began to form
this man out of the dust.
And just think about this human
being being created, and then
God breathing life into him.
See, now...
Adam, or the, the man, uh, never
was able to be a baby, right?
He never experienced the baby.
And there's a lot of babies in this
room, and I'm thankful for those.
But you guys understand this,
there's a lot of newness with babies.
Well, for Adam, or for the first man,
he was a full human, a full creation,
a full adult, if we would look at this.
But I just begin to think it just about
creation, and those of you who have
had kids, the moment that I saw my
children come into the world, Change
my life and my perspective about God.
And I look at this same situation.
And again, you may not have had
that experience and that's okay.
But I look at this experience
and I think of that same thing.
And I think about how it's transformed
my life to see my kids born.
Because that is God.
And there's nothing else
that could have created that.
And I look and see that God created the
first man, and He breathed life into him.
And I think that's just a reminder to
us of how beautiful it is to know that
God, our Creator, breathed life into us.
And that breath that we have, every breath
that you breathe every day is from God.
And He gives you that breath, we're
gonna learn later, for a purpose.
For a purpose.
So if you haven't stopped breathing, God
is saying, I am not done with you yet.
Keep breathing and keep
living and keep working.
Okay?
And so we see that, right?
That God says, Okay, um, there's now mist
and there's now a man to be able to be
formed so that he can work the garden.
But where's the man gonna go?
And so he, now he creates this place.
And we see this in verse eight, and he
plants this garden in Eden in the east.
And he placed the man that he
formed there in this garden.
And this becomes his first home.
And when we look at the word Eden,
um, it's defined as this, as a
delight, a place of much water,
which would suggest a paradise that
God had created for man to live in.
Right?
The first home.
Um, and most of us, Again, maybe
wrong, but most of us first home
probably didn't look much like Eden.
It probably looked like a dump.
I remember ours.
I remember moving into our first
home and in the winter it felt
like for some reason the air
conditioner was on under our floor.
Well, we realized there was no insulation.
And it was cold from about the floor
to the top of our knees, and it
felt like it was about 30 degrees.
Uh, and there was a lot of
other issues with our home.
So we didn't live in a paradise, but
Adam was born and placed into a paradise.
And that's an awesome thing, right?
And we see the things that
he said that grew, right?
He says there was things that
grew, including trees, things
that were pleasing in appearance,
things that were good for food.
And I stopped right
then and realized this.
God is providing for Adam.
He didn't just create him
and say, figure it out.
He created this place that was beautiful.
And he created a place that would
provide food or nourishment, what
he needed to live and exist, right?
Um, and then he talks about these two
trees, which become a curse later,
that, right, we talk about these trees.
But he talks about the tree of life
in the middle of the garden, and
then the tree of good and evil.
And we're going to talk more
about this here in just a minute.
Um, but then he jumps into verses
10 through 14, and, uh, he begins to
reference rivers, and things that I
probably didn't correctly say, but I
acted like I knew what I was saying.
Um, and all these rivers and, and things
that float in to be able to water those
trees, those, those things that were
created in this Garden of Eden, right?
Uh, and, and most, again, most
people have studied, and like,
hey, where was this garden at?
And they begin to do all these
coordinates, and taking these
places, and some of the similar
names, and honestly, we don't know.
I mean, you, you can guess all day long.
But nobody's ever found that place,
because actually, if you'll go to, um,
the, and we'll learn about it soon, is.
After Adam and Eve sinned and they were
placed out of the garden, it actually
talks about God placing basically,
um, an angel in place to guard it.
So nobody's going to find it, by the way.
They're just not going to find it.
But most people want to know
where that was, but we don't
have to know, um, with this.
But we see verse 15 here.
Uh, basically it says the Lord
took Adam and he placed him in this
beautiful garden to do two things.
Don't miss this.
He says, he placed him in this
garden to work it and watch over it.
And I stopped for a minute whenever
I studied this and I went, wait, God,
God had Adam work before sin came.
Because you always say like when sin
came into the world, there was two
curses, women, you got a hard labor.
That stinks for you, but man, you're gonna
work the ground and it's gonna be hard.
But we still had to work.
Like, we see this, that Adam still
had to work even in this beautiful
creation before the fall, right?
Um, and I, I think that
was interesting, right?
That God provided, but he provided,
provided Adam to work the ground.
Um, but most likely he enjoyed
his work with this, right?
Um, and so I think this is just a good
reminder for us that God has designed work
for us, our abilities and the things that
God has given us to use us, the spirit
of God inside of us, to, to be God's
reflection to those around us, right?
To be faithful stewards.
Um, and so that's kind of where we
see the first man in the first home.
So everything's still looking good.
I still look at this when we're
going into Genesis, Genesis chapter
one, the first part of Genesis
chapter two, everything's going good.
But then we see God now create
this covenant with man, right?
Between him and man in verses 16 and 17.
So let's read that.
We see, we see where he says, And the
Lord God commanded the man, You are
free to eat from any of the tree of
the garden, but you must not eat from
the tree of knowledge of good and evil.
For the day that you eat from
it, you will certainly die.
And then the Lord God said, it
is not good for man to be alone.
He says, I will, uh, and I'll stop
there, those two verses there.
So this first covenant, when
we think about this, was
between God and man, obviously.
And when we think about a word
covenant, we think about it this way.
It's a binding arrangement between
two people, um, or more people, um,
that governs their relationship.
So it's a binding agreement or an
arrangement between two or more people
that governs their relationship.
Uh, and we see here where it
says that God commanded the man.
And so the question is, did Adam
have a say in this covenant?
He really, he didn't, but in essence,
his creator created this for a reason,
and so Adam obviously accepted it.
But he says that he commanded
it, and that God's the one that
made the terms of the agreement.
And so, there's a moment,
guys, where again, I think it's
important to ask these questions.
Why is it okay for God
not to give Adam a say?
I mean, Adam's committing
to this commandment.
Like, why do I have to follow this?
Like, shouldn't I have a say in it?
And I begin to think there's a bigger
picture of this that we're going to build
out over the several weeks that comes up.
But it makes a little bit of
sense because we understand
that God is God and we are not.
It also makes sense to this that God,
His perspective on life is unlimited.
Unlimited.
He can see everything.
He can see the potential.
The potential struggles, the potential,
um, things that could come wrong,
but our perspective is limited.
And, and, and here's how I know this.
Right now, you do not have the ability to
see anything else other than this room.
This is your perspective, but
God's perspective sees every single
thing that's going on across the
whole world, the whole world.
And that means that if God's
perspective is not limited and he
begins to give this commandment.
This covenant that he begins to make
with Adam, to not eat of one tree, but
he can have the tree of anything else.
For Adam, he's probably thinking,
God's probably looking out for me.
God's probably got a better
understanding of this than I do, right?
And so his perspective's not limited.
And I think we need to hear this.
I'm gonna make this statement, this is a
quote that I wrote down, and then I was
like, man, I need to hear this, I need to
post this, on top of my, like, mirror that
I see every single morning that I wake up.
Um, here's what I wrote down.
And some of our greatest disappointments
can become, I'm going to say this
differently because I'm struggling to
read it because I hate to hear this.
And some of our greatest disappointments
can be God's divine perspective.
I'm going to say this again.
And some of our greatest disappointments
can be God's divine perspective.
It's hard to hear that sometimes,
um, because we want what we want
and we think we know what's best.
Um, and so we have the privilege though,
and I think this is the beautiful thing.
We have the privilege and the
chance to know our creator.
And I think that's a big
responsibility to know this, that
our creator knows what's best for us.
And with this command, Adam.
So, only requirement is obedience.
And that obedience would provide what?
Why would we obey God?
Why would Adam obey God?
That obedience would provide
Adam with Eve, eventually, we'll
talk about that in just a minute.
God's fellowship, God's
safety, and God's providence.
Those are all blessings.
So for Adam to obey God in this covenant,
to eat of everything else but one tree,
he would receive all those things.
God's blessing.
It seems good, but, but how many of
us can walk into a room and somebody
tell us we can't have one thing in
that room and it makes us want it?
Anybody ever seen a kid?
We actually, let me just
give you this great example.
This morning as we're setting up, Ashley
and Alex come in with their son Judah and
he goes right over to the water fountain.
And I said, you know, it's kind of
funny cause they're like, no, no,
get away from the water fountain.
Don't play in the water fountain.
It's always the one thing in the room that
the kids can't play with that you tell
them no, that they keep going back to.
Is that right?
It's the same thing in our adult life.
So we're told we can't touch it.
What do we want to do?
I want to touch it.
So when we think about this,
God makes this commandment.
Adam's like, cool.
You have your best, you know,
my best interest in mind.
That's great.
But it's always sitting there.
And we're going to talk about that
just even a little bit more, right?
And so I think that's hard.
He talks about this, right?
The tree of knowledge.
Let's just talk about
this, or not knowledge.
The tree of life.
What does the tree of life give Adam?
The tree of life gives Adam immortality.
To live forever in
eternity with God in Eden.
He gives that to him if he
eats of the tree of life and
the rest of the things there.
But the tree of knowledge of
good and evil gives him death.
But it still seems enticing to him.
And we're not even to the fall yet,
and I keep kind of getting there, and
that's chapter three, but it's this
thing that's constantly sitting over
there in the back of their minds.
And so the big question is, this is
the big question that I had to ask, and
this is the big question everybody asks.
If it was so bad, if it was something
that Adam shouldn't touch, why
would God place it in the garden?
Why would He just not place it there?
Solves all the problems, right?
Solves all the problems.
Well, deep dive, just think about it here.
If the choice is removed, to follow God.
If the choice is removed to love God,
believe God, to trust God, if that
choice is removed, we become robots.
We become forced servants.
We become something that I would just
tell you I would hate to be forced.
Nobody likes to be told that they
have to, no matter what, you're
gonna be forced to do this.
We get a choice.
So that tree placed the opportunity.
This is the first time
that God gave man human.
A choice.
Why is a choice matter?
Let me just give you a
couple of perspectives.
I'll give you this one specifically.
There's times where I tell my
kids, Hey, come give me a hug.
And you know what they do?
Oh, okay, dad.
And then they like, wrap their arms around
and it's just like this half hearted hug.
And you know why they do it?
Because I'm their dad.
And they're gonna listen to me.
Because that's what I tell them to do.
But the times that my kids
choose to come give me a hug.
That's the special hugs that I love.
And that may be simple to you, but
I would just think of it this way.
God wants us to choose him.
So he gave Adam a choice, and
that's where the choice comes.
And yes, with the choice comes
the opportunity to experience the
consequences of choosing wrong.
And we see that later, right?
So he wants people to choose
him freely and willingly.
He wants people to obey rather than
just submit out of just have to, right?
And, uh, when we look at this first
command that God had given Adam,
it was the most important command.
Again, because of choice, but because
it also would protect Adam and would
allow him to experience God's best.
And again, I would just say this
to ourselves, when we choose
obedience, when we choose God,
we experience God's blessing.
But when we don't, we miss out on it.
So, we move on from there and we see...
The first marriage and how God originally
designed it in verses 18 through 25 here.
So verse 18 says this, Then the Lord God
said it is not good for man to be alone.
This is the first time in all of creation
that God says something is not good.
He says all kinds of
things have been good.
It's been good.
It's, it's really good.
But there's one thing that's not good
and it was not good for man to be alone.
And so then he says this, I will
make a helper corresponding to him.
And the Lord God formed out of the
ground every wild animal and every
bird of the sky and brought each to
the man to see what he would call it.
And whatever the man called a
living creature, that was his name.
And the man gave names to all
the livestock to the birds of
the sky and to the wild animal.
But for the man, no helper was
found corresponding to him.
So the Lord God caused a deep sleep to
come over the man and he slept and God
took one of his ribs and he closed the
flesh at that place and then the Lord God
made the rib he had taken from the man
into a woman and brought her to the man
and the man said This is, at last, is one
of my bone, um, or, I'm saying this wrong.
This one, at last, is bone of
my bone and flesh of my flesh.
This one will be called woman.
And she was taken from man.
And this is why a man leaves his
father and mother and bonds to his
wife, and they become one flesh.
And both the man and his
wife were naked and fell.
No.
So let's kind of jump in here
and dive through this, right?
It's not good for man to be alone.
Um, when you think about this idea
is think about where Adam's at,
what was not good for, for Adam.
And, and maybe I just need to
speak for the men for a little bit.
Is there like some fun in it, like to
just be home alone and watching the
football game and eating what you want?
I mean, come on, guys.
We like that.
So what's not good about Adam and God?
Like, God came to me, and you just
hang out and be like, this is great.
But God knew that wouldn't last very long.
God would get tired of man and say,
you need to get, figure this out, okay?
Um, but, so it wasn't good for Adam,
even though he had God's fellowship.
He enjoyed the fruit of the garden,
the protection of the garden.
What more could he need?
And God knew he needed a
helper corresponding to him.
And this word corresponding, this
is basically what he's saying.
He needed a helper equivalent
in character, form, or function.
And I want to kind of reference
this idea with helper.
Don't think of this as demeaning.
Christ actually called himself a helper.
Uh, this is a beautiful thing, and we're
gonna break that down even more as well.
Um, but when we look at
this, verse 19, right?
He takes an interesting route
in creating this helper.
He starts with bringing all these
animals to Adam, and he says, Name them.
Right?
Name these animals.
And as these animals come up, you know,
obviously it's not in the English words,
it's in other words, but he begins to name
them, and I begin to think about this.
Adam had to eventually get
tired of naming animals, right?
He has these big things, these big
names, like you know, Leviathan,
or Gorilla, or Armadillo.
There comes a point where he's so
tired, he's like, Cat, Dog, and
Rat, like, I'm so done with naming
these things, can we move on?
Maybe, I know that's in English
words, don't, don't come back
and tell me, I know, okay.
But I'm just thinking
that had to get tiring.
But what do we think that Adam saw?
Again, we're trying to make, uh, uh,
of kind of like, we're not there.
So what's Adam seeing?
And we see it in the next verse, but Adam
seeing these animals come and many would
believe that these animals would come in
pairs and Adam would over and over again,
see these animals come in pairs and be
sensing a deep disconnection in his life.
They have to.
I have none.
They have two.
I'm missing something.
Where's my mate?
Where's my helper?
Where's my other, right,
corresponding person?
And so it says this in verse 20, right?
And after the man had gave all
these names, he realized that
there was no one found, no helper
found corresponding to him.
And so this is what God does, right?
He ends up taking, mm hmm.
A rib out of Adam.
And this is the cool part.
This is where we see the first
anesthesiologist come into creation.
He puts Adam to sleep.
Um, and then God took out the rib, right?
And just so you know, this is how,
uh, practical I was as a new believer.
Uh, and just so you, this will
just really tell you how dumb
of a pastor you probably have.
So I'm studying this text.
I remember the first time and I read
this and I go, Do men have one less rib?
Dead serious.
And I was like thinking this,
like, do men have one less rib?
Like, I mean, that was Adam at, at
that point, Adam had one less rib.
I'm like, are we just
all created with one?
That's not true.
Just say, just cover that out.
Okay.
But I was just that person
just trying to really ingrain
in what God was doing in that.
And I was pretty stupid in that, but
we all have the same amount of ribs.
Okay.
But God used this rib to make
a suitable companion for Adam.
So a couple of things to answer here.
And I want to kind of.
Okay.
I'm gonna speak to this specifically.
God didn't make this
woman to be Adam's slave.
He didn't make her to be a
lesser creation or creature.
Uh, why?
Because both of them
were made in His image.
Both of them had dominion over creation.
Both of them had the same purpose.
Okay, in that idea of creation,
uh, Matthew Henry actually says it
in this way in regards to women.
He says, she was not made out of his
head to rule over him, nor out of
his feet to be trampled upon him,
but out of his side to be equal with
him under his arm to be protected
and near his heart to be beloved.
So she was corresponding to him, right?
Equivalent in character,
form, and function.
And, and I don't have enough time
to dive into this, but later on
in the Bible it explains this
idea of equal submission and role.
Yes, we all have, as men and women,
different roles in this relationship.
Absolutely, 100%.
But it's equal submission to one another.
Equality in the idea of,
preferring one another, putting one
another's needs before the other.
And there's a beautiful picture to this.
But I wanted to make it as clear as
possible that Eve is not just this
helper to go do whatever Adam said,
but it is to be a equal partner in
this relationship that God created.
Got one Amen from the woman.
Okay, there we go.
All right.
So we see here in verse 23
uh, God presents this woman.
To Adam and Adam's response and most
believe this is kind of like a little Like
poem or something that he specifically
was saying, uh as soon as god, uh brought
this woman to me He says this one is at
last bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh
and this one will be called woman and
she Was taken For she was taken from man.
I look at it this way, maybe
I, I'm, I typically see
things very funny in, in text.
And I believe that Adam saw
her and went, whoa, man.
And then realized that he's
just gonna call her woman, okay?
They had some of that stuff, you
know, back then as well, you know.
Some of that stuff, you know, I'm
talking about the lingo, right?
Whoa, man, like, she's hot.
I mean, she was naked after all.
I knew I was gonna go there, sorry.
They didn't know it.
It's okay.
Moving on.
Okay, so we see that God made man
for woman and woman for man, and I
want to just slowly kind of highlight
this idea behind in today's society.
Obviously, people are
missing out on that, right?
They're not experiencing the
blessing between man and woman.
They're not experiencing it in
marriage because sometimes they're
choosing not even to get married.
Which would, we're going to talk
about in verse 24, the idea behind the
oneness that comes through marriage.
We also see it in choosing of the
opposite sex and not marrying a
man or the man and woman, it being
man and man or woman and woman.
They're missing out on that blessing that
God has originally designed in creation.
And that's a hard topic to talk
about and hard things to miss.
But I would say this, when we dive
into the Word, we're seeing God's best.
On display, God's design on display
and anything separate from that.
And this isn't the only thing,
but we're here on this text.
Anything else than that is
missing out on God's best.
And I would just say this.
Why do we want to miss out on God's
best if he designed it this way?
Okay, and so he says
this in verse 24, right?
Uh, and, and we kind of
see this in verse 24.
It kind of takes a shift because that was
Adam speaking, and then this is really God
speaking, uh, and giving a word, what we
believe, to Moses when he's writing this.
He says, this is why a man leaves
his father and his mother and
the bonds with his wife, and
they become one flesh, right?
One flesh.
And when we think about this bond
of one flesh, think of it this way.
Once they are married, you will never see
them as though they could be separate.
Right?
Once they're put together,
they have become one.
You wouldn't even know there was two.
That's the design of marriage so much.
But, what do we know?
Again, in our society, I would say
almost over 50 percent of relationships
and marriage end in divorce.
That's even in the church, y'all.
What happens when you try to
separate something that was
designed to be together forever?
It gets messy.
It's not God's design.
And, and here's the thing, if
you've been divorced, it's not
here to, to, to knock on you or to
make you feel like bad about it.
It's, it's, you, you know it.
It was messy.
And it's tough.
And that's not what God designed.
And yes, there's redemption through that.
And there's opportunity to, to
experience God again in a new way.
But we see this is so important.
This one flesh is, is, I would say this,
it's this term of saying, we can't ever
look as though we could live life apart.
And that's hard.
I'm just telling you, marriage is hard.
I've been long, married long
enough, and she'll tell you.
I asked her the other day,
how do you put up with me?
And she says, I don't know, Jesus.
That's what she says.
No, Jesus, right?
But God designed them
to be one flesh, right?
Martin Luther says this, he called
marriage a school for character.
I love this, a school for character.
As two people live together in holy
matrimony, the experience either
brings out the best in them, It's an
opportunity to exercise faith, hope,
and love, and to mature in sacrifice and
service to one another for God's glory.
So I would say this, God designed
marriage in the beginning to
display His glory to the world.
His perfect, because they became one,
they became something that was perfect,
in this perfect garden, in this, in
this beautiful place, and all these
amazing things that God has created.
These are all the first, the first
man, and the first home, the first
covenant that was to protect Adam in
future generations, and it was the first
marriage, and design of marriage, and
God created all of that for us, right?
All of that for us.
So we see in verse 25, just to
kind of highlight it right, he
says this, Both man and his wife
were naked, yet they felt no shame.
Again, that's going to really
speak to later when we realize
that they realized their nakedness.
But this is really, is we, we, we
find out that they felt no shame.
It was natural.
It was, it was not, for
them, it wasn't indecent.
It was beautiful.
It was beautiful, the
way that God had created.
There was no need to cover God's beauty in
this garden until sin came into the world.
And again, that was God's
original design with him.
So the question is, how do
we leave out of here today?
This is a lot that we covered.
We dove into some of it a little bit
deeper, but how do we leave out of
here with some practical application?
What do we take home?
I would say this in seeing
God's original design.
This is my hope for you in seeing God's
original design and plan being put into
place that we desire to be a part of that.
Now, what we do know.
Is that because sin is in the world,
we don't get to experience this beauty
that God originally created right now.
Now we can experience what I would call
a taste of it in living in the ways
in which God has called us to live.
But ultimately, we won't fully
experience it until we spend
eternity in heaven with God again.
But we can experience some of that this
side of heaven by obeying the Lord, by
seeing that God's perspective is not
limited, by trusting that His design
is better than my fleshly desires.
That's hard, choosing
God over me at times.
And that's why His Word reminds
us that He knows what's best.
So we see this, right, this blessing
that was given to Adam and Eve.
And before sin came into the world and my
challenge to you today as we walk through
invitation is for you to ask God to help
you experience some of that blessing
today, some of that blessing in your life.
Maybe it's your marriage.
Maybe it's just you appreciating you,
meaning this, your creation, that God
knitted you together in your mother's womb
and he breathed breath into your life.
You think that Adam was the only one that
God breathed breath into his, their life?
No, like every single person that is
born in this world, God breathed breath
into their lungs so that they could live.
You.
So we're gonna take time to, to even think
about that and maybe be consumed by that.
And then the other challenge I'm gonna
challenge you to do is to take time
to just look at your heart in life.
Is, we may have sin in our life.
We may have times where we
have disobeyed the Lord.
We have not been following the Lord the
way that God has called us to and we'll
be able to pray and repent and do that.
So I'll lead you through that in just
a minute, but I'm gonna pray for us.
So Lord Jesus, we thank
you so much for your word.
We thank you for your truth.
We thank you for how you continue
to remind us of our original.
design, uh, Lord, one that, Lord, was
meant to be perfect and this perfect
garden where you provided for us
and you provided another helper and,
and where we would have just been
fruitful and we would have multiplied.
But Lord, you gave us this one thing, this
choice, that every single person that was
ever created has the ability to choose.
And it's beautiful, but it also
comes with some consequences, Lord.
And we, See that today, Lord, that we
sometimes choose You, and we experience
the blessing, and we sometimes choose
ourselves and our flesh, and the things
that are not godly and the things
that are not beneficial for us, and
we experience less than Your best.
So, Lord, I pray that as we walk through
this invitation, Lord, that each person
truly opens their heart, and they pour
their requests out to You, and they begin
to ask for You to transform their lives.
So, Lord, we just pray
this in Your heavenly name.
Amen.
So, I want to lead you through invitation.
I love being able to do this, so this
just allows you to take time to sit
where you are with your eyes closed and
say, Lord, speak to me in this moment.
So, the first thing that I just want
to encourage you to pray is maybe
you ask God this question, Have you
forgotten your purpose for creation?
That God created you with His breath to
work and display His image to the world.
So, ask God this question, Lord, am
I representing you to the world the
way you've designed me, or am I not?
And based upon how the Lord responds
to you, I want you to pray and ask God
to forgive you or to help you continue
to be that image bearer to the world.
So just spend some time
praying for that specifically.
Alright, the next thing I want to
challenge you to do is this is something
I challenge you to do every day.
But today specifically, I want you
to just ask the Lord this question.
Lord, is there anything in my
life that is not honoring to you?
Is there sin in my life
that I need to repent of?
And the reason why I challenge
you to do that, because if we
have sin in our lives that we are
unrepentant about, we will miss that
relationship that God has for us.
It will hinder our relationship
that we have with the Lord.
So I don't know what that could
be, but you do, the Lord does.
So just sit there and ask the
Lord, Is there a sin in my
life that I need to repent of?
And if there is, ask God to forgive you,
and to wash it away, and to give you a new
perspective on life, a new relationship.
So just spend some time
praying and asking.
And
the last thing that I want to share, and
I always want to share this, is if you
are sitting in this room and you've never
experienced a relationship with Jesus,
you've never experienced a true saving
relationship with Jesus, that you can
ask God to come into your life, repent
of your sins, and experience a blessing,
one that will transform your life,
transform many people in this room's life.
And so how do you do that?
By confessing your need for Jesus.
By asking for forgiveness of your sins,
and by committing your life to Him,
to follow Him the rest of your life.
And I just encourage you, right where
you are, to say that to the Lord,
and ask Him to move in your life, and
transform your life, and to use you.
Because all it takes is faith.
Faith in God.
Turning over to Him.
Don't complicate it.
Just receive His grace and mercy,
so He can transform your life.
And if you believe that and if you
pray that, I challenge you, I challenge
you today to come and talk to me.
Come talk to someone and say, I've given
my life to Jesus, I'm repenting of my
sins, I need some help to walk in this.
Maybe you need help to walk in your faith.
We all do, honestly.
So my challenge to you is don't leave
that to just between you and God.
Make sure you profess it and you talk
to someone and you share that with them.
I'm gonna pray for us, and then
here in just a minute, we're gonna
stand, and I want us to worship.
I want us to worship like God is our
creator, not, this is the last song before
Ben gives announcements and we get to go
eat some lunch and watch the Bengals game.
You know what I mean?
Okay, nobody does know what I mean.
I want you to worship like there's no one
else in the room other than you and God.
Because your creator loves you.
And he deserves worship.
Not because...
That's what makes you right with God.
But because that's what
makes you who you are.
He made you who you are.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we know you are God.
We have studied about it.
We have seen creation.
And Lord, I don't know how after the last
three weeks, we can't walk out of here
in awe of, Lord, what you've created.
Lord, you have given Us, this life,
every one of us that is sitting here
are breathing in and breathing out
because you breathe life into us first.
And God, too many times, maybe I'm
just speaking about myself, Lord, too
many times I take every bit of creation
and everything I have in my family
and everything I have in my life for
granted because Lord, it's not enough.
That's what I feel like.
It's not enough.
Maybe there's people in this
room that feel the same way I do.
But Lord, it is enough because you
have not taken that breath from me.
You've not taken that
breath from anybody else.
You've given it to them to
breathe and to live and to
represent you, Lord, to the world.
To be a reflection of your character
and your spirit and your love
and your mercy and your grace.
So Lord, I just pray that you meet
every person right where they are.
You give them.
Or just a renewed spirit
in their life, Lord.
To truly worship you and to live for you,
Lord, like they've never lived before.
But God, I'm praying if there's someone
in this room that doesn't know you or
that's afraid to profess you or they
don't know at all and they have questions,
Lord, that they'll come and they'll talk
to me, Lord, they'll talk to someone and
they'll just say, hey, I have questions.
Because God, there's nothing like
a personal relationship with you.
And I desire to see every
person in this room know you.
So, Lord, move like you have always
moved, but move even more, Lord.
We're asking for your Spirit to move
in our lives and in this church.
So, Lord, we just pray
this in your heavenly name.
Amen.
Let's stand and let's worship.